examples/cloud-chat/README.md, before:

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<p align="center">
⚡️
<br>
<br>
<b>cloud.serverless.com</b>
<br>
Cloud Chat
</p>

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

**Cloud Chat**

[Cloud Chat](https://distributed-source-t9cms.cloud.serverless.com) is an iMessage-inspired chat application built on [Serverless ⚡️ Cloud](https://serverless.com/cloud/).

Find friends on the map and then start chatting. It's a fun way to make new friends from around the world. Be nice! 😀

[![Deploy to Serverless Cloud](https://cloud.serverless.com/deploy.svg)](https://cloud.serverless.com/start/clone?repoUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fserverless%2Fcloud%2Ftree%2Fmain%2Fexamples%2Fcloud-chat)

# Developing

## Getting Started

Clone this repo, and navigate into the `examples/cloud-chat` directory...

```
git clone git@github.com:serverless/cloud.git
cd cloud/examples/cloud-chat
```

Install dependencies

```
npm i
```

## Local dev

You can run the frontend on localhost and talk to the Cloud API.

1. Run `npm start` in the `cloud-chat` root folder
1. Note the URL of your developer sandbox
1. Change `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` in `frontend/.env.development` to your developer sandbox URL
1. Run `npm start` in the frontend folder
1. Visit the app at [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001)

## Developer sandbox

To deploy the frontend to your developer sandbox:

1. Run `npm start` in the `cloud-chat` root folder
1. Run `npm run build` in the frontend folder. The build output will be synced to your developer sandbox.
1. Visit the app using your developer sandbox URL

## Deploy to production

1. Run `npm run build` in the frontend folder
1. Run `npx run deploy` in the `cloud-chat` root folder

The app will be deployed to the `production` instance.

## Backend tests

Run backend tests using `npm test` in the `cloud-chat` root folder

## Token Secret

A token secret is used to sign authorization tokens, so you should set it to a unique value to secure your tokens.

To set the token secret:

1. Go to the [Serverless Cloud Dashboard](https://cloud.serverless.com)
1. Go to the app page for `cloud-chat` and click the Parameters tab
1. Create a parmeter with the key: `TOKEN_SECRET` and set the value to be a random secret string

Commit message:

Updates to Next.js examples

examples/cloud-chat/README.md, after:

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<p align="center">
⚡️
<br>
<br>
<b>cloud.serverless.com</b>
<br>
Cloud Chat
</p>

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

**Cloud Chat**

[Cloud Chat](https://distributed-source-t9cms.cloud.serverless.com) is an iMessage-inspired chat application built on [Serverless ⚡️ Cloud](https://serverless.com/cloud/).

Find friends on the map and then start chatting. It's a fun way to make new friends from around the world. Be nice! 😀

[![Deploy to Serverless Cloud](https://cloud.serverless.com/deploy.svg)](https://cloud.serverless.com/start/clone?repoUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fserverless%2Fcloud%2Ftree%2Fmain%2Fexamples%2Fcloud-chat)

# Developing

## Getting Started

Clone this repo, and navigate into the `examples/cloud-chat` directory...

```
git clone git@github.com:serverless/cloud.git
cd cloud/examples/cloud-chat
```

Install dependencies

```
npm i
```

Install Serverless Cloud if you haven't already

```
npm i -g @serverless/cloud
```

## Local development

In one terminal window, run `cloud dev` to run the Next.js dev server.

In another terminal window, run `cloud` to run the Serverless Cloud shell.

The application will be available at http://localhost:3000

## Deploy to production

`cloud deploy production`

The production URL will be displayed when the deployment is complete.

## Backend tests

`cloud test`

## Token Secret

A token secret is used to sign authorization tokens, so you should set it to a unique value to secure your tokens.

To set the token secret:

1. Go to the [Serverless Cloud Dashboard](https://cloud.serverless.com)
1. Go to the app page for `cloud-chat` and click the Parameters tab
1. Create a parmeter with the key: `TOKEN_SECRET` and set the value to be a random secret string
